dra: core types + low-level design (#8)
jmdeal/karpenter: designs/dra/scheduling-plan.md

  - [Finalization and Annotation Population](#finalization-and-annotation-population)
- [2-Phase vs Superposed: Algorithm Selection](#2-phase-vs-superposed-algorithm-selection)
  - [Single-Pass Hybrid Approach](#single-pass-hybrid-approach)
  - [Incremental Requirement Tracking](#incremental-requirement-tracking)
- [Resolved Design Decisions](#resolved-design-decisions)
- [Open Design Decisions](#open-design-decisions)

---

## Overview

This plan describes the implementation of DRA structured parameters support in Karpenter's scheduling simulation. The allocator is responsible for determining whether a pod's `ResourceClaim` requests can be satisfied by a given NodeClaim, and if so, which devices should be allocated and how the NodeClaim's constraints should be tightened.

The implementation follows the upstream Kubernetes DRA allocator's structure (DFS with backtracking over a device decision tree) but diverges in how it handles in-flight NodeClaims, where the instance type is not yet determined and device availability varies across candidate instance types.

### Key References

| Reference | Path |
|-----------|------|

> | Upstream stable allocator | `/Users/jmdeal/projects/kubernetes/staging/src/k8s.io/dynamic-resource-allocation/structured/internal/stable/` |

Reviewer: nit: local path is being used here

2. If no cache entry exists, build the pool set from scratch:
   - **In-cluster pools**: Derived from the pre-filtered `ResourceSlice` set provided to the `Allocator` at construction time. This set has already had slices from deleting/excluded nodes removed by the caller. For existing (initialized) nodes, these are the real published slices. For pre-initialized nodes, these are a merge of in-memory templates and any published slices (per the lifecycle doc's three-phase tracking strategy).
   - **In-flight pools** (for in-flight/new NodeClaims): Retrieve per-instance-type `ResourceSlice` sets from `NodeClaim.ResourceSlices()`. These represent the devices that *would* be available for each candidate instance type.

3. Validate each pool:
   - A pool is **complete** when the number of observed `ResourceSlice` objects matches `pool.resourceSliceCount`.
   - Incomplete pools are marked but not discarded — they may become complete as slices are published.

>    - Pools with duplicate device names within a slice are marked `Invalid`. These pools are carried forward — `All` mode requests will fail validation if any gathered pool is invalid (see [Phase 2, Step 2d](#step-2-request-validation)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Pools with duplicate device names across all slices within a pool are marked `Invalid`. These pools are carried forward — `All` mode requests will fail validation if any gathered pool is invalid (see [Phase 2, Step 2d](#step-2-request-validation)).
```
